# sanger-tol/genomenote: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory. The directories comply with Tree of Life's canonical directory structure.

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Contact maps](#contact-maps) – Contact matrix created using HiC sequencing data
- [Genome statistics](#genome-statistics) – Collated assembly information, genome statistics and alignment quality information
- [Annotation statistics](#annotation-statistics) - Statistics calculated on the annotated protein set for the assembly (if GFF annotation file is provided as input)
- [BUSCO](#busco) - BUSCO results
- [Genome Note](#genome-note) - Data for the generation of a genome-note article.
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### Contact maps

This pipeline takes aligned HiC reads to create contact maps and chromosomal grid using Cooler for display on a [HiGlass server](https://higlass.io/).

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `contact_maps/`
  - `<sample>.bedpe`: chromosomal grid created from the `.cool` file
  - `<sample>.cool`: initial contact matrix created
  - `<sample>.mcool`: final contact matrix for upload

</details>

### Genome statistics

This pipeline collates (1) assembly information, statistics and chromosome details from NCBI datasets, (2) genome completeness from BUSCO, (3) consensus quality and k-mer completeness from MerquryFK, and (4) HiC primary mapped percentage from samtools flagstat.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `genome_stats/`
  - `<gca_accession>.assembly_summary`: a file containing a summary of all data collected through-out the pipeline run.
  - `<gca_accession>.completeness.stats`: coverage of solid read k-mers by the assemblies and their union (if two are given).
  - `<gca_accession>.*._only.bed`: a .bed file of the locations where the assemblies have k-mer's not supported by those in the reads.
  - `<gca_accession>.<assembly>.qv`: error and qv table for each scaffold of the input assemblies.
  - `<gca_accession>.qv`: error and qv of each assembly as a whole.

</details>

### Annotation statistics

This pipeline can generate some statistics using AGAT and a BUSCO completeness score on the assembly annotation if a GFF file of protein annotations is given as input. This file should be a GFF3 format file describing the annotated protein set.

<detail markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `gene/` -`<annotation_input_filename>_stats.csv`: collated annotation statistics file

</details>

### BUSCO

BUSCO results generated by the pipeline (all BUSCO lineages that match the classification of the species).

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `busco/`
  - `<lineage_name>`
    - `short_summary.{json|tsv|txt}`: BUSCO scores in various formats.
    - `full_table.tsv`: list and coordinates of BUSCO genes that could be found
    - `missing_busco_list.tsv`: BUSCO genes that could not be found
    - `{single,multi,fragmented}_busco_sequences.tar.gz`: sequence files of the annotated genes.
    - `hmmer_output.tar.gz`: Scores and outputs from the HMMER searches

</details>

### Genome Note

Collection of various data into formats suitable for ingesting into a final genome-note article.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `genome_note/`
  - `<gca_accession>.csv`: collated genome statistics file
  - `<gca_accession>.{docx|xml}`: partially completed genome note template file
  - `<gca_accession>_genome_note_consistent.csv`: a file of genome metadata parameters pulled from various public data repositories where all source agree on the paramter value.
  - `<gca_accession>_genome_note_inconsistent.csv`: a file of genome metadata parameters, and their sources pulled from various public data repositories where the paramter value differs between data sources.

</details>

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Some of the pipeline results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline from supported tools e.g. BUSCO. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/genomenote/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  </details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
